docs/introduction.md, before:

---
id: introduction
title: About This Textbook
sidebar_label: About
slug: /
---

# Physical AI & Humanoid Robotics: From Simulation to Reality

**A Comprehensive University-Level Textbook**

## Welcome

Welcome to Physical AI & Humanoid Robotics, a comprehensive textbook designed for university students and practitioners seeking to master the design, simulation, and deployment of autonomous humanoid robots.

The future of AI extends beyond digital spaces into the physical world. This textbook introduces Physical AI—AI systems that function in reality and comprehend physical laws. You will learn to design, simulate, and deploy humanoid robots capable of natural human interactions using industry-standard tools: ROS 2, Gazebo, Unity, and NVIDIA Isaac.

## What You Will Learn

Upon completing this textbook and associated projects, you will be able to:

1. **Design and Architecture**
   - Design complete embodied AI systems for humanoid robots
   - Select appropriate sensors and actuators for robotics applications
   - Architect ROS 2-based robot control systems

2. **Simulation and Modeling**
   - Create high-fidelity robot simulations in Gazebo, Unity, and Isaac Sim
   - Model robot kinematics and dynamics using URDF/SDF
   - Generate synthetic training data for robot learning

3. **Perception and Navigation**
   - Implement Visual SLAM for localization and mapping
   - Deploy hardware-accelerated perception using Isaac ROS
   - Configure autonomous navigation systems using Nav2

4. **Control and Locomotion**
   - Implement bipedal walking controllers
   - Design manipulation and grasping systems
   - Ensure stable balance and fall recovery

5. **AI Integration**
   - Integrate Large Language Models for cognitive planning
   - Implement voice-to-action systems using speech recognition
   - Design multi-modal interaction systems

6. **Deployment**
   - Transfer learned behaviors from simulation to reality
   - Deploy AI models to edge devices (NVIDIA Jetson)
   - Optimize models for real-time performance

## Course Structure

This textbook is organized into 8 parts covering 18 chapters plus appendices:

### Part I: Foundations of Physical AI (Weeks 1-2)
Introduction to embodied intelligence and sensor systems that enable robots to perceive the physical world.

### Part II: The Robotic Nervous System (Weeks 3-5)
Master ROS 2, the middleware that powers modern robotics, and learn to build complex multi-component systems.

### Part III: The Digital Twin (Weeks 6-7)
Create realistic simulations using Gazebo and Unity for safe robot development and testing.

### Part IV: The AI-Robot Brain (Weeks 8-10)
Leverage NVIDIA Isaac for GPU-accelerated perception, navigation, and synthetic data generation.

### Part V: Humanoid Robot Development (Weeks 11-12)
Implement kinematics, bipedal locomotion, manipulation, and human-robot interaction capabilities.

### Part VI: Vision-Language-Action (Week 13)
Integrate conversational AI using Large Language Models for natural language robot control.

### Part VII: Integration and Deployment
Master sim-to-real transfer and edge computing for production robot deployment.

### Part VIII: Capstone Project
Build a complete autonomous humanoid that understands voice commands, navigates, manipulates objects, and provides verbal feedback.

## Technology Stack

- **Robot Middleware:** ROS 2 (Humble/Iron)
- **Simulation:** Gazebo, Unity, NVIDIA Isaac Sim
- **AI Platform:** NVIDIA Isaac SDK, Isaac ROS
- **Programming:** Python (primary), C++ (optional)
- **AI Models:** GPT-4/Claude (LLM), OpenAI Whisper (speech), YOLOv8 (vision)
- **Hardware:** NVIDIA RTX GPU, Jetson Orin, Intel RealSense

## Prerequisites

To succeed with this textbook, you should have:

- Strong Python programming skills
- Understanding of AI/ML fundamentals (neural networks, reinforcement learning)
- Linear algebra and calculus background
- Basic physics concepts
- Familiarity with software development tools (Git, command line, IDEs)

## Target Audience

**Entry Level:** Students with strong Python programming skills, basic AI/ML knowledge, and understanding of linear algebra.

**Target Level:** Practitioners capable of designing, simulating, and deploying autonomous humanoid robots with conversational AI capabilities.

## How to Use This Textbook

### For Students
- Read chapters sequentially as they build on each other
- Work through knowledge checkpoints to verify understanding
- Consult appendices for reference information
- Complete the capstone project to integrate all concepts

### For Instructors
- 13-week course structure maps directly to chapters
- Each chapter designed for one week of instruction
- Knowledge checkpoints provide assessment opportunities
- Capstone project enables comprehensive evaluation

### For Self-Learners
- Follow the chapter sequence for systematic learning
- Set up hardware gradually as needed for each section
- Join online communities for support
- Build towards the capstone project as a portfolio piece

## Get Started

Ready to begin your journey into Physical AI?

Start with [Chapter 1: Introduction to Physical AI](/chapters/chapter-01-introduction-to-physical-ai) to learn about the paradigm shift from digital AI to embodied intelligence.

## About Panaversity

This textbook is created for the Panaversity Physical AI & Humanoid Robotics course. Panaversity is an initiative focused on teaching cutting-edge AI courses and developing AI-native educational materials.

Learn more at [panaversity.org](https://panaversity.org)

---

**Ready to start?** Head to [Chapter 1](/chapters/chapter-01-introduction-to-physical-ai) to begin your journey into Physical AI and humanoid robotics.

Commit message:

docs: update version to 2.0.0 with RAG chatbot feature

docs/introduction.md, after:

---
id: introduction
title: About This Textbook
sidebar_label: About
slug: /
---

# Physical AI & Humanoid Robotics: From Simulation to Reality

**A Comprehensive University-Level Textbook**
**Version 2.0.0** — Now with Interactive RAG Chatbot 🤖

## Welcome

Welcome to Physical AI & Humanoid Robotics, a comprehensive textbook designed for university students and practitioners seeking to master the design, simulation, and deployment of autonomous humanoid robots.

The future of AI extends beyond digital spaces into the physical world. This textbook introduces Physical AI—AI systems that function in reality and comprehend physical laws. You will learn to design, simulate, and deploy humanoid robots capable of natural human interactions using industry-standard tools: ROS 2, Gazebo, Unity, and NVIDIA Isaac.

## What You Will Learn

Upon completing this textbook and associated projects, you will be able to:

1. **Design and Architecture**
   - Design complete embodied AI systems for humanoid robots
   - Select appropriate sensors and actuators for robotics applications
   - Architect ROS 2-based robot control systems

2. **Simulation and Modeling**
   - Create high-fidelity robot simulations in Gazebo, Unity, and Isaac Sim
   - Model robot kinematics and dynamics using URDF/SDF
   - Generate synthetic training data for robot learning

3. **Perception and Navigation**
   - Implement Visual SLAM for localization and mapping
   - Deploy hardware-accelerated perception using Isaac ROS
   - Configure autonomous navigation systems using Nav2

4. **Control and Locomotion**
   - Implement bipedal walking controllers
   - Design manipulation and grasping systems
   - Ensure stable balance and fall recovery

5. **AI Integration**
   - Integrate Large Language Models for cognitive planning
   - Implement voice-to-action systems using speech recognition
   - Design multi-modal interaction systems

6. **Deployment**
   - Transfer learned behaviors from simulation to reality
   - Deploy AI models to edge devices (NVIDIA Jetson)
   - Optimize models for real-time performance

## Course Structure

This textbook is organized into 8 parts covering 18 chapters plus appendices:

### Part I: Foundations of Physical AI (Weeks 1-2)
Introduction to embodied intelligence and sensor systems that enable robots to perceive the physical world.

### Part II: The Robotic Nervous System (Weeks 3-5)
Master ROS 2, the middleware that powers modern robotics, and learn to build complex multi-component systems.

### Part III: The Digital Twin (Weeks 6-7)
Create realistic simulations using Gazebo and Unity for safe robot development and testing.

### Part IV: The AI-Robot Brain (Weeks 8-10)
Leverage NVIDIA Isaac for GPU-accelerated perception, navigation, and synthetic data generation.

### Part V: Humanoid Robot Development (Weeks 11-12)
Implement kinematics, bipedal locomotion, manipulation, and human-robot interaction capabilities.

### Part VI: Vision-Language-Action (Week 13)
Integrate conversational AI using Large Language Models for natural language robot control.

### Part VII: Integration and Deployment
Master sim-to-real transfer and edge computing for production robot deployment.

### Part VIII: Capstone Project
Build a complete autonomous humanoid that understands voice commands, navigates, manipulates objects, and provides verbal feedback.

## Technology Stack

- **Robot Middleware:** ROS 2 (Humble/Iron)
- **Simulation:** Gazebo, Unity, NVIDIA Isaac Sim
- **AI Platform:** NVIDIA Isaac SDK, Isaac ROS
- **Programming:** Python (primary), C++ (optional)
- **AI Models:** GPT-4/Claude (LLM), OpenAI Whisper (speech), YOLOv8 (vision)
- **Hardware:** NVIDIA RTX GPU, Jetson Orin, Intel RealSense

## Prerequisites

To succeed with this textbook, you should have:

- Strong Python programming skills
- Understanding of AI/ML fundamentals (neural networks, reinforcement learning)
- Linear algebra and calculus background
- Basic physics concepts
- Familiarity with software development tools (Git, command line, IDEs)

## Target Audience

**Entry Level:** Students with strong Python programming skills, basic AI/ML knowledge, and understanding of linear algebra.

**Target Level:** Practitioners capable of designing, simulating, and deploying autonomous humanoid robots with conversational AI capabilities.

## How to Use This Textbook

### For Students
- Read chapters sequentially as they build on each other
- Work through knowledge checkpoints to verify understanding
- Consult appendices for reference information
- Complete the capstone project to integrate all concepts

### For Instructors
- 13-week course structure maps directly to chapters
- Each chapter designed for one week of instruction
- Knowledge checkpoints provide assessment opportunities
- Capstone project enables comprehensive evaluation

### For Self-Learners
- Follow the chapter sequence for systematic learning
- Set up hardware gradually as needed for each section
- Join online communities for support
- Build towards the capstone project as a portfolio piece

## 🤖 Interactive RAG Chatbot (NEW in v2.0!)

This textbook now features an **AI-powered chatbot assistant** to enhance your learning experience:

### Features
- **💬 Ask Questions:** Get instant answers about any Physical AI or robotics topic
- **📚 Grounded Responses:** All answers are based on actual textbook content (no hallucinations!)
- **🔍 Text Selection:** Highlight any paragraph and click "Ask about selection" for detailed explanations
- **💡 Context-Aware:** Maintains conversation history for follow-up questions
- **📖 Source Citations:** Every answer includes references to relevant chapters

### How to Use
1. Look for the **purple 💬 button** in the bottom-right corner of every page
2. Click to open the chatbot
3. Type your question or select text on the page
4. Get instant, accurate answers with source references

**Powered by:** Google Gemini AI + RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation)

## Get Started

Ready to begin your journey into Physical AI?

Start with [Chapter 1: Introduction to Physical AI](/chapters/chapter-01-introduction-to-physical-ai) to learn about the paradigm shift from digital AI to embodied intelligence.

## About Panaversity

This textbook is created for the Panaversity Physical AI & Humanoid Robotics course. Panaversity is an initiative focused on teaching cutting-edge AI courses and developing AI-native educational materials.

Learn more at [panaversity.org](https://panaversity.org)

---

**Ready to start?** Head to [Chapter 1](/chapters/chapter-01-introduction-to-physical-ai) to begin your journey into Physical AI and humanoid robotics.
